---
layout: post
title: Car Free Day, Sep 22, 2023
date: '2023-09-23T07:00:00.000+05:30'
author: Abhijit
categories: Cycling
modified_time: '2023-09-23T07:00:00.000+05:30'
---

From the [UN Environment Program Website](https://www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/world-car-free-day-22-september-great-opportunity-reduce-air-pollution):

> Every year on or around 22 September, cities across the globe celebrate World Car-Free Day, encouraging motorists to give up their cars for a day. The event highlights the numerous benefits of going car-free to citizens—including reduced air pollution and the promotion of walking and cycling in a safer environment.
> 

Going car-free is a nice experiment to identify the not-so-obvious ways in which we have dependent on cars; and more importantly, how *not* being able to have a car can be a big roadblack for many people.

<!--more-->

This year, I am going to *attempt* to be car free for a week - not just a day; and record my observations here.

##### Day 1: Sep 22
* Distance to work is 15km one way. Most days I drive. Bus is ok for the morning but there are few/no buses after 5.30pm for the return. Don't want to ride in the rickety *tam-tam*s that are slow, dirty, overloaded and under-maintained.
* Biking to work is not too bad as long as I start by 8.30am - mostly downhill and on a good day I can actually average 25kmh. Would have been good to have a separated bike lane.
* I think non-car infrastructure will only improve if we force our politians and  heads of public institutions to ditch their cars. Or at least get rid of incentives for company cars perhaps.
* Dharwad's biggest asset for urban mobility is the BRT line. Crazy idea - change one side of the BRT line (currently 2 lanes of car traffic) into a separated bike lane plus walking track.
The other side (2 lanes) can serve car traffic in both directions. Put large car + motorbike parking at key points along the BRT, e.g. NBS, Court Circle, Toll Naka, etc. and convert the entire corridor into a commercial + mixed use zone.
* The "highway" from DIMS to the highway bypass has a major identity crisis. It is built like a major highway (60-80kmh speeds), but the signages are marked 40kmh. This is (I hope) the only [stroad](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ORzNZUeUHAM) in Dharwad